---

copyright:
  years: 2020, 2026

lastupdated: "2026-04-24"

keywords:

subcollection: framework-financial-services-controls-fsv1-1
---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# CP-10 - Information System Recovery and Reconstitution [FSv1.1]
{: #cp-10}

This control is based on IBM Cloud Framework for Financial Services v1.1.
{: note}


## Control requirements
{: #control-requirements}

CP-10 - 0
    : The organization provides for the recovery and reconstitution of the information system to a known state after a disruption, compromise, or failure.

## Additional IBM Cloud for Financial Services specifications
{: #additional-ibm-cloud-for-financial-services-specifications}

- Contingency plans must include procedures for validating successful recovery and reconstitution.  Recovery and reconstitution activities include resuming operational capabilities at the original location.

## Implementation guidance
{: #implementation-guidance}

See the resources that follow to learn more about how to implement this control.

- [Business continuity and disaster recovery overview](/docs/framework-financial-services?topic=framework-financial-services-shared-bcdr)
- [Operational logging](/docs/framework-financial-services?topic=framework-financial-services-shared-logging-operational)
- [Operational monitoring](/docs/framework-financial-services?topic=framework-financial-services-shared-monitoring-operational)




## NIST supplemental guidance
{: #nist-supplemental-guidance}

Recovery is executing information system contingency plan activities to restore organizational missions/business functions. Reconstitution takes place following recovery and includes activities for returning organizational information systems to fully operational states. Recovery and reconstitution operations reflect mission and business priorities, recovery point/time and reconstitution objectives, and established organizational metrics consistent with contingency plan requirements. Reconstitution includes the deactivation of any interim information system capabilities that may have been needed during recovery operations. Reconstitution also includes assessments of fully restored information system capabilities, reestablishment of continuous monitoring activities, potential information system reauthorizations, and activities to prepare the systems against future disruptions, compromises, or failures. Recovery/reconstitution capabilities employed by organizations can include both automated mechanisms and manual procedures.
