---

copyright:
  years: 2020, 2025

lastupdated: "2025-02-15"

keywords:

subcollection: framework-financial-services-controls
---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

               
# SI-12 - Information Handling and Retention [FSv1.1]
{: #si-12}

This control is based on IBM Cloud Framework for Financial Services v1.1.
{: note}


## Control requirements
{: #control-requirements}

SI-12 - 0
    : The organization handles and retains information within the information system and information output from the system in accordance with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, and operational requirements.

## Additional IBM Cloud for Financial Services specifications
{: #additional-ibm-cloud-for-financial-services-specifications}

The organization shall adhere to data retention and destruction parameters defined by the customer.

Destruction of customer records must be approved by the customer prior to destruction.

Destruction of customer data must occur within 30 days of customer authorization.

The organization will inform the customer upon completion of requested/approved modification/disposal of customer data.

The organization will ensure that metadata for records owned by FS-ready public cloud customer but maintained by the organization will meet customer granularity requirements.   These requirements can be requested from the customer assigned Vendor Manager to the organization/IBM.

Rules of behavior must include data handling requirements according to customer’s security classification, including but not limited to:
- Clear desk policy to safeguard sensitive information
- Customer data may not be stored on laptops or mobile devices
- When users stop work and move away from the immediate vicinity of the system, screen locks must be used to conceal information previously visible on the display with a publicly viewable image
- Credentials must not be shared and must be rotated and stored in accordance with authentication and encryption policies
- Collaboration spaces must be secured and data only shared with authorized individuals granted permissions to access the data.

## IBM Cloud for Financial Services profile
{: #scc-fs-cloud-profile}

The rules related to this control that follow are part of the IBM Cloud for Financial Services v1.2.0 profile in [{{site.data.keyword.compliance_full}}](/docs/security-compliance?topic=security-compliance-getting-started).

- Check whether Cloud Object Storage quota enforcement is off for buckets that are configured to use Activity Tracker Event Routing 
- Check that Hyper Protect Crypto Services has failover units in at least 2 different regions that are Financial Services Validated 
- Check whether Cloud Object Storage buckets with a quota have threshold-based alerts enabled

## NIST supplemental guidance
{: #nist-supplemental-guidance}

Information handling and retention requirements cover the full life cycle of information, in some cases extending beyond the disposal of information systems. The National Archives and Records Administration provides guidance on records retention.





