---

copyright:
  years: 2020, 2025

lastupdated: "2025-02-15"

keywords:

subcollection: framework-financial-services-controls
---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

               
# CM-10 (1) - Open Source Software [FSv1.1]
{: #cm-10.1}

This control is based on IBM Cloud Framework for Financial Services v1.1.
{: note}


## Control requirements
{: #control-requirements}

CM-10 (1) - 0
    : The organization establishes the following restrictions on the use of open source software: [Assignment: organization-defined restrictions].

## Additional IBM Cloud for Financial Services specifications
{: #additional-ibm-cloud-for-financial-services-specifications}

The organization must establish the following restrictions on the use of open source software:
- All open source software must have an owner defined within the organization.
-The owner must certify that software was obtained from a trusted source and has gone though both static and dynamic vulnerability scans.
- All open source software must be identified in the configuration baseline of the application.
- Unapproved open source software must never be used.

## IBM Cloud for Financial Services profile
{: #scc-fs-cloud-profile}

The rules related to this control that follow are part of the IBM Cloud for Financial Services v1.2.0 profile in [{{site.data.keyword.compliance_full}}](/docs/security-compliance?topic=security-compliance-getting-started).

- Check whether DevSecOps Toolchain scans source code and their dependencies to identify vulnerabilities

## NIST supplemental guidance
{: #nist-supplemental-guidance}

Open source software refers to software that is available in source code form. Certain software rights normally reserved for copyright holders are routinely provided under software license agreements that permit individuals to study, change, and improve the software. From a security perspective, the major advantage of open source software is that it provides organizations with the ability to examine the source code. However, there are also various licensing issues associated with open source software including, for example, the constraints on derivative use of such software.





